Sources.md, before:

The Following are the sources i used for the creation of this workshop. They are listed here in no particular order.

- The Official Oracle Java Documentation at [Lesson: Language Basics (The Java™ Tutorials > Learning the Java Language)](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/)
- The Official Spring Documentation: [Spring | Home](https://spring.io)
- Baeldung's Spring boot tutorial: [Learn Spring Boot | Baeldung](https://www.baeldung.com/spring-boot)
- geeksforgeeks Java Tutorial: [Java Tutorial | Learn Java Programming](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/java/)
- W3 Schools Java tutorial [Java Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/java/default.asp)
- Project Lombok: [Project Lombok](https://projectlombok.org)
- Wikipedia Article on Wrapper Classes: [Primitive wrapper class in Java - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primitive_wrapper_class_in_Java)
Screenshots are taken from:

-Eclipse IDE from The Eclipse Foundation: [The Community for Open Innovation and Collaboration | The Eclipse Foundation](https://www.eclipse.org)

- Spring Initializer: [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io)

Commit message:

Tables, Relations, Code for Repositorys

Sources.md, after:

The Following are the sources i used for the creation of this workshop. They are listed here in no particular order.

- The Official Oracle Java Documentation at [Lesson: Language Basics (The Java™ Tutorials > Learning the Java Language)](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/)
- The Official Spring Documentation: [Spring | Home](https://spring.io)
- Baeldung's Spring boot tutorial: [Learn Spring Boot | Baeldung](https://www.baeldung.com/spring-boot)
- Baeldung's JPA Relations tutorial: [Working with Relationships in Spring Data REST | Baeldung](https://www.baeldung.com/spring-data-rest-relationships)
- geeksforgeeks Java Tutorial: [Java Tutorial | Learn Java Programming](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/java/)
- W3 Schools Java tutorial [Java Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/java/default.asp)
- Project Lombok: [Project Lombok](https://projectlombok.org)
- Wikipedia Article on Wrapper Classes: [Primitive wrapper class in Java - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primitive_wrapper_class_in_Java)
Screenshots are taken from:

-Eclipse IDE from The Eclipse Foundation: [The Community for Open Innovation and Collaboration | The Eclipse Foundation](https://www.eclipse.org)

- Spring Initializer: [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io)
